>>> ON THIS EDITION FO
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 26th, WE'L
LOOK AT THE LATEST EFFORTS T
CURB PIRACY AROUND THE WORLD
>>> IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT
THE WAR AGAINST COMPUTER
HACKERS, ENLISTING COLLEGE
STUDENTS IN THE FIGHT.
>> IS IT EVER THE CASE THAT YO
ACTUALLY HAVE A STUDENT DISCOVER
SOMETHING THAT NOBODY KNEW ABOUT
IN THE MIDDLE OF THE SEMESTER?
>> THAT'S ACTUALLY A COURS
REQUIREMENT.
>>> AND WOMEN IN SAUDI ARABI
FIGHT FOR THE RIGHT TO DRIVE
>> IF MY HUSBAND'S NOT AVAILABLE
THEN I CAN'T GO TO WORK, I CAN'T
TAKE MY DAUGHTER TO TH
HOSPITAL, I CAN'T GO FOR A
EMERGENCY.
I'M COMPLETELY STUCK
>> NEXT ON "PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISH WNET STUDIOS A
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK
>> GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
DURING HIS WEEKLY RADIO ADDRES
TODAY PRESIDENT OBAMA ACCUSE
CONGRESSIONAL REPUBLICANS OF
ROOTING FOR THE AFFORDABLE CAR
ACT TO FAIL.
HE ALSO TRIED TO REASSURE TH
PUBLIC THAT THE HEALTHCARE.GOV
WEBSITE WILL BE FIXED SOON
>> WE'VE GOT PEOPLE WORKIN
OVERTIME 24/7 TO BOOST CAPACIT
AND ADDRESS THESE PROBLEMS EVERY
SINGLE DAY
BUT EVEN AS WE IMPROVE THE WEB
SITE, REMEMBER THAT THE WEBSIT
ISN'T THE ONLY WAY TO APPLY FO
COVERAGE UNDER THESE NEW PLANS
WE'VE UPDATED HEALTHCARE.GOV T
OFFER MORE INFORMATION ABOUT
ENROLLING OVER THE PHONE, BY
MAIL OR IN PERSON WITH A
SPECIALLY TRAINED NAVIGATOR WH
CAN HELP ANSWER YOUR QUESTIONS
>> IN THE REPUBLICAN RESPONSE,
CONGRESSMAN FRED UPTON SAID TH
WEBSITE GLITCHES COULD BE TH
BEGINNING OF EVEN GREATE
PROBLEMS
>> THIS IS MORE THAN A WEBSITE
PROBLEM.
WE'RE ALSO CONCERNED ABOUT WHA
HAPPENS NEXT
WILL ENROLLMENT GLITCHES BECOM
PROVIDER PAYMENT GLITCHES?
WILL PATIENTS SHOW UP AT THE
DOCTOR'S OFFICE OR HOSPITAL ONLY
TO BE TOLD THAT THEY ARE NOT I
THE SYSTEM
AND IS THE PERSONAL INFORMATIO
THAT AMERICANS PROVIDE AS PART
OF THE ENROLLMENT PROCESS REALLY
SAFE FROM CYBER HACKERS AN
IDENTITY THEFT
>> THERE'S BEEN AN OUTBURST OF
VIOLENCE ALONG THE BORDE
BETWEEN IRAN AND PAKISTAN.
MEDIA REPORTS 14 IRANIAN BORDE
GUARDS WERE KILLED, 6 WOUNDED, 3
CAPTURED DURING AN OVERNIGHT
ATTACK BY PEOPLE THEY DESCRIBE
AS BANDITS
IRAN RESPONDED QUICKLY B
HANGING 16 PRISONERS I
DESCRIBED AS TERRORISTS.
IRANIAN SECURITY FORCES HAVE
BATTLED DRUG TRAFFICKERS IN TH
AREA BUT THERE HAS ALSO BEEN A
GREAT DEAL OF UNREST IN TH
BORDER REGION BETWEEN PAKISTAN
SUNNI AND IRAN SHIA MUSLIM
POPULATIONS.
A SUICIDE BOMBING THERE THRE
YEARS AGO KILLED DOZENS OF
PEOPLE
>>> A U.N. ENVOY SAID TODAY IRAN
SHOULD HAVE A PLACE AT ANY PEACE
TALKS AIMED AT ENDING THE CIVI
WAR IN SYRIA
THE UNITED NATIONS IS HOPING THE
PEACE CONFERENCE TAKES PLACE I
GENEVA LATE NEXT MONTH BUT
SYRIAN OPPOSITION LEADERS HAVE
NOT YET AGREED TO ATTEND
>>> A PRIOR TO CHARITABLE FUND
DESIGNED TO COVER MENTAL HEALT
CARE OF SURVIVORS AT THE NEWTO
SCHOOL MASSACRE IS RUNNING OUT
OF MONEY
ONE OFFICER IS STILL TOO
TRAUMATIZED TO RETURN TO WOR
AND COULD BE FIRED
>>> THE END OF A LONG-STANDING
BUSINESS RELATIONSHIP BETWEE
TWO VERY FAMOUS BRAND NAMES.
McDONALD'S HAS REPORTEDL
DECIDED TO STOP USING HEIN
KETCHUP AFTER HEINZ HIRED TH
FORMER CEO OF BURGER KING.
HE STILL SERVES AS THE VIC
CHAIRMAN OF BURGER KING'S BOARD.
>>> FROM PERU, WORD OF A
REMARKABLE ARCHEOLOGICAL
DISCOVERY.
TWO WELL-PRESERVED MUMMIES, ON
ADULT AND ONE CHILD, SQUATTING
AND WRAPPED IN ROPE, UNEARTHED
DURING A DIG OUTSIDE THE CAPITAL
CITY OF LIMA
THE REMAINS ARE THOUGHT TO B
MORE THAN 1,000 YEARS OLD.
RESEARCHERS BELIEVE THE ADUL
DIED FIRST, THEN THE CHILD WAS
POSSIBLY BURIED ALIVE AS A
OFFERING TO THE GODS
RESEARCHERS ALSO DISCOVERE
OTHER OFFERINGS, INCLUDING THE
REMAINS OF GUINEA PIGS AND JAR
WITH DESIGNS OF CATS
THE DISCOVERIES WERE MADE AT A
ANCIENT RELIGIOUS COMPLEX BEIN
EXCAVATED FOR MORE THAN 30 YEARS
NOW.
70 TOMBS HAVE BEEN UNCOVERED
THERE.
>>> WE WANT TO TAKE A CLOSER
LOOK AT A STORY THAT BROKE A
COUPLE OF DAYS AGO, THE CAPTUR
OF TWO AMERICANS OFF THE COAST
OF NIGERIA BY ARMED PIRATES.
THE INCIDENT OCCURRED IN THE
GULF OF GUINEA
GLOBAL BUSINESS IMPLICATIONS
BECAUSE NIGERIA IS AFRICA'
LEADING OIL PRODUCER AND A MAJOR
SUPPLIER OF COCOA AND METALS
WE'RE JOINED BY THE FOUNDER AN
HEAD OF SEA LEVEL MARITIME RISK.
THERE'S A LOT IN THE AIR ABOUT
SOMALIA AND PIRACY PARTL
BECAUSE OF THE MOVIE "CAPTAI
PHILLIPS" AND SOMALIA'S ON THE
EAST SIDE OF AFRICA.
WHAT ARE THE PARALLELS AND THE
DISSIMILARITIES WHEN IT COMES TO
WHAT'S HAPPENING OFF THE COAST
OF NIGERIA
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME
FIRST OF ALL
APPLES AND ORANGES
I THINK WHAT WE'RE LOOKING A
THE SOMALI CASE, PIRACY, IT'
MUCH MORE MARITIME BASED, IT
ORIGINATED ON THE WATER, AND
TAKES ADVANTAGE OF SHIPS, CARGOS
GOING PAST SOMALIA
WHEREAS IN TEARS OF NIGERIA,
WE'RE LOOKING AT A FORM OF
CRIMINALITY WHICH HAS EXTENDED
TO THE WATER BUT WHICH I
BASICALLY LAND BASED, BASED ON
THE ILLEGAL BLACK MARKET FOR OIL
AND ATTACKS SHIPS THAT ACTUALL
OPERATE AROUND NIGERIA, GO INT
AND OPERATE CLOSE TO SHORE
SO IT'S VERY DIFFERENT MODELS.
NIGERIA'S OIL PRODUCTION HAS
MADE IT A HAVEN FOR A HUGE
FIGHT.
THERE'S A POLITICAL MOVEMENT
THERE TO TRY TO GET PEOPLE OUT
THERE IS A POSSIBILITY THESE TWO
ARE INTERCONNECTED, THE CRIM
THAT'S HAPPENING OFFSHORE,
WHAT'S HAPPENING WITH OIL ON
LAND
>> YEAH, QUITE SO.
THE GROUP THAT WE'RE LOOKING A
RIGHT NOW IS POSSIBLY CONNECTE
TO THE KIDNAPPING, CALLED TH
M.E.N.D., MOVEMENT FOR THE
EMANCIPATION OF THE NIGER DELTA.
IT AGREED TO A TRUCE A FEW YEARS
AGO, THE MILITANTS HAD PUT DOW
THEIR GUNS AND GOTTEN BENEFITS
AS WELL AS EDUCATION
BUT IT SEEMS TO COME BACK UP
AGAIN.
IT'S BASICALLY ORGANIZING PEOPLE
FROM THE NIGER DELTA WHO ARE
UPSET AT THE AMOUNT OF OIL
THAT'S PUMPED OUT OF THEIR PAR
OF THE COUNTRY AND HOW LITTL
MONEY THEY HAVE FROM THE
NATIONAL GOVERNMENT TO SHOW FO
IT
>> SO IS THIS LUCRATIVE ENOUGH
IS THAT WHY THIS KEEPS
HAPPENING?
>> IN TERMS OF THE KIDNAPPING,
YES, DEFINITELY.
AND ALSO WHAT'S CALLED BUNKERING
WHICH IS THE STEALING OF OIL O
GASOLINE PRODUCTS FROM
PIPELINES.
WE HAVE CRIMINAL GROUPS THAT ARE
OPERATING LOOSELY WITH POLITICAL
AS WELL AS OTHER AGENDAS
AND THEY'VE BEEN SELF-FINANCING,
DOING THIS SORT OF KIDNAPPIN
MULLS STEALING OF PETROLEU
PRODUCTS AND RESELLING THEM BACK
INTO THE MARKET FOR YEARS NOW.
>> AND WHAT ARE SOME OF TH
SAFETY ISSUES OR TACTICAL ISSUES
FROM THE U.S. PERSPECTIVE TO TRY
TO GET THESE HOSTAGES OUT?
>> THERE ARE MANY THINGS THA
COULD GO WRONG
WE WERE WORRIED ABOU
IDENTIFYING THE GROUP TO FIN
OUT IF THEY'RE DISCIPLINED
THERE COULD BE RIVALRIES AND
FIGHTS AMONG THE GANG MEMBERS.
THERE COULD BE OTHER GANGS THA
WOULD WANT TO KIDNAP THESE TWO
AMERICANS BECAUSE THEY HAVE HIGH
RESALE VALUE
WE COULD LOOK AT A PROBLEM THI
TERMS OF A BOTCHED MILITAR
RESPONSE IF THE NIGERIAN OR AN
OTHER GOVERNMENT WERE TO MOVE IN
TOO QUICKLY.
IT'S VERY POSSIBLE THAT PEOPLE
COULD GET KILLED IN TH
OPERATION.
AND KIDNAPPERS IN THAT PART OF
THE WORLD HAVE BEEN KNOWN TO
KILL THEIR HOSTAGES WHEN THE
FEEL THEY'RE GOING TO LOSE THEM.
>> WE COULDN'T DO THIS WITHOUT
NIGERIA'S GOVERNMENTAL SUPPORT
>> DEFINITELY NOW THAT IT'S ON
THE GROUND OPERATION
THIS IS NOT A "CAPTAIN PHILIPS
RESCUE OPERATION HUNDREDS OF
MILES OUT IN INTERNATIONAL
WATERS
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT TWO AMERICAN
HOT ARE NOW ON NIGERIAN SOIL
>> ALL RIGHT, MICHAEL FROTO FROM
WASHINGTON, THANKS SO MUCH
>> THANK YOU
>>> NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT.
ORIGINAL REPORTING FROM AROUND
THE NATION AND THE WORLD
TONIGHT THE WAR AGAINS
MALICIOUS COMPUTER HACKERS
BY ONE ESTIMATE, GOVERNMENTS AND
BUSINESSES AROUND THE WORLD NO
SPEND $46 BILLION A YEAR TRYIN
TO PROTECT THEIR COMPUTE
SYSTEMS.
SOME SECURITY EXPERTS NO
BELIEVE THE BEST WAY IS TO USE
THE VERY SAME TECHNIQUES THE BAD
GUYS USE
AND THEY'RE ENLISTING A TALENTED
GROUP OF STUDENTS AT CARNEGI
MELLON UNIVERSITY TO HELP IN THE
FIGHT.
"NEWSHOUR" CORRESPONDENT RIC
CARR REPORTS FROM PITTSBURGH
>> Reporter: THE BAD GUYS STOL
MORE THAN 3 MILLION SOCIAL
SECURITY NUMBERS FROM THE STAT
OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
AS MANY AS 70 MILLION CREDIT
CARD NUMBERS FROM SONY
PLAYSTATION.
THEY GOT ACCESS TO ALL OF TH
PERSONAL DETAILS OF SOME
CUSTOMERS OF A NATIONWID
MORTGAGE LENDING FIRM.
BUT CYBER CRIMINALS AREN'T JUS
LOOKING TO STEAL PERSONA
INFORMATION AND CREDIT CAR
NUMBERS WHEN THEY BREA
MASSACHUSETTS CORPORAT
COMPUTERS.
THEY'RE LOOKING FOR OTHE
VALUABLE INFORMATION
>> EVERYTHING ABOUT YOUR
BUSINESS IS ACCESSIBLE TO AN
ATTACKER
>> Reporter: STEWART BAKER I
FORMER GENERAL COUNSEL OF TH
NSA, NOW A COMPUTER SECURITY
CONSULTANT
>> THEY CAN STEAL YOUR DESIGNS
THEY CAN STEAL YOUR KNOW-HOW
THEY CAN STEAL YOUR CUSTOMER
LIST
AND YOUR INTERNAL ANALYSIS O
WHAT THE BIGGEST PROBLEMS ARE IN
YOUR PRODUCT
THIS IS PRETTY SCARY
>> Reporter: THE BAD GUYS AR
MOSTLY WORKING FROM CHINA AN
FORMER SOVIET STATES
THEY'RE WELL-TRAINED
SOME OF THEM ARE PROTECTED BY OR
EVEN WORKING FOR THEIR
GOVERNMENTS.
SO THEY DON'T CARE ABOUT GETTING
CAUGHT
AND THEY MIGHT BE ABLE TO DO
EVEN MORE THAN STEAL INFORMATION
FROM BUSINESSES.
SECURITY EXPERTS WORRY THE
COULD CRIPPLE THE BANKING SYSTEM
OR SHUT DOWN PARTS OF TH
ELECTRIC GRID.
BAKER SAYS AMERICAN BUSINESSES
NEED A NEW MINDSET IF THEY'R
GOING TO DEFEND THEMSELVES
>> I'M A BIG BELIEVER THAT THE
BEST DEFENSE IS AN OFFENSE
AND IF WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A
OFFENSE, WE'VE GOT TO HAVE
PEOPLE WHO ARE REALLY TALENTED
DRAWN TO THAT FIELD.
>> Reporter: PEOPLE LIKE THESE
UNDERGRADUATES WHO JUST MIGHT BE
ABLE TO SAVE AMERICA'S
CORPORATIONS AND GOVERNMENTS
FROM THE BAD GUY HACKERS
THEY'RE STUDENTS AT CARNEGIE
MELLON UNIVERSITY, ONE OF TH
NATION'S TOP COMPUTER SCIENC
SCHOOLS, AND THEY'RE LEARNING TO
FIGHT OFF THE BAD GUYS B
THINKING THE SAME WAY THEY DO.
THEY'RE LEARNING TO BE THE GOO
GUY HACKERS.
>> YOU HAVE TO UNDERSTAND AND BE
ABLE TO ANTICIPATE HOW HACKERS
ARE GOING TO COME AT YOU
IF YOU'RE ONLY DOING DEFENSE, IF
YOU DON'T LOOK AT OFFENS
OFFENSE, YOU'RE ALWAYS
REACTIONING AND YOU'RE ALWAY
ONE STEP BEHIND.
>> IS THAT DIFFERENT, A CHANGE
IN THE WAY COMPUTER SCIENC
FACULTIES HAVE APPROACHED THIS
>> TRADITIONALLY, YEAH, THER
HASN'T BEEN A LOT OF EXPERTISE
IN OFFENSIVE SECURITY AND HASN'T
BEEN TAUGHT AT THE UNIVERSIT
LEVEL.
>> Reporter: COMPUTER SECURITY
PROFESSOR DAVID BRUMLEY SAYS
IT'S TOUGH TO TEACH BECAUSE TH
BRAND-NEW, CUTTING-EDGE CYBE
ATTACK OF TODAY WILL B
AVAILABLE TO ANYONE WITH A WEB
BROWSER BY NEXT WEEK
>> FOR EXAMPLE, MY COURSES I
COMPUTER SECURITY, WE DON'T HAVE
TEXTBOOKS.
EVERYTHING'S SO NEW WE HAVE TO
LOOK AT WEBSITES, WE HAVE TO
LOOK AT THE LATEST FRO
CONFERENCES, AND REALLY TEAC
FROM THAT.
EVERY YEAR IT'S A SIGNIFICAN
UPDATE
>> IS IT EVER THE CASE THAT YO
ACTUALLY HAVE A STUDENT DISCOVER
SOMETHING THAT NOBODY KNEW ABOUT
IN THE MIDDLE OF THE SEMESTER?
>> OH, THAT'S ACTUALLY A COURS
REQUIREMENT.
ONE OF THE THINGS WE ASK
STUDENTS TO DO IS GO OUT AND
FIND A VULNERABILITY THAT NO ONE
ELSE HAS FOUND, FIGURE OUT I
IT'S EXPLOITABLE, AND THEN
REPORT IT ETHICALLY.
>> WHICH MEANS WHAT?
>> THEY'RE GOING AND FINDING
SOMETHING THEY COULD USE T
BREAK INTO SOMEONE'S COMPUTE
AND THEN THEY GO TELL TH
PROGRAMMER, LOOK, HERE IS
FLAW, FIX IT
>> Reporter: ALL THOSE FLAWS
THAT CARNEGIE MELLON'S
UNDERGRADUATES FIND DON'
NECESSARILY MEAN THE SOFTWARE ON
YOUR PPC OR BEHIND YOUR BANK'S
WEBSITE IS BADLY WRITTEN
ALMOST EVERY PIECE OF SOFTWARE
HAS VULNERABILITIES THAT CAN B
EXPLOITED FROM OUTSIDE
AND WHEN A MACHINE'S CONNECTED
TO THE INTERNET IT'S ALMOS
IMPOSSIBLE TO MAKE IT PERFECTL
SECURE
WHAT'S MORE, COMPARED TO 10 OR
20 YEARS AGO, THERE ARE JUST S
MANY MORE COMPUTERS AND TABLET
AND SMARTPHONES, ALL OF THEM
CONNECTED, ALL OF THEM
VULNERABLE
WHICH MEANS WE'RE VULNERABLE
TOO.
CARNEGIE MELLON'S STUDENTS ARE
SO GOOD AT EXPLOITING THOS
VULNERABILIIES THE NSA HIRED
THEM TO CREATE A GAME TEACHING
HACKING SKILLS TO HIGH SCHOO
STUDENTS
CYLAB, CYBER SECURITY INSTITUTE,
IS HOME TO THE TOP-RANKE
COMPETITIVE HACKING TEAM IN TH
WORLD, THE PLAID PARLIAMENT OF
PONING
PONE IS HACKER SPEAK FOR OWN, AS
IN THE HACKER TAKES OVER THE
COMPUTER AND OWNS IT
FOR THE THIRD STRAIGHT YEAR TH
TEAM WON TOP HONORS AT
INTERNATIONAL COP TESTS THAT PIT
TEAMS OF HACKERS AGAINST ONE
ANOTHER AND UTTERLY DEMOLISHED
THE COMPETITION AT A PRESTIGIOUS
CONTEST IN LAS VEGAS
>> A LITTLE BIT LIKE A MIN
CYBER WAR THAT'S GOING ON.
YOU GET POINTS BY HOW WELL YOU
FIND EXPLOITS IN YOU
ADVERSARIES AND HOW WELL YOU CAN
DEFEND AGAINST THEIR ATTACK.
THEY'RE SECURE FROM THE NORMAL
INTERNET AND SET OUT
SPECIFICALLY FOR THIS PURPOSE.
>> HOW STIFF IS THE COMPETITION?
WHO'S ON YOUR HEELS IN TERMS O
THE TOP TEN RANKINGS
>> WHO'S NOT
THERE'S ALL SORTS OF GOVERNMEN
CONTRACTORS WHO HAVE TEAMS THA
WE COMPETE WITH.
AND THEY DO THIS PROFESSIONALLY.
>> Reporter: HACKER IS A LABEL
THE STUDENTS EMBRACE
THE WORD HAS A LONG HISTORY IN
COMPUTER SCIENCE CIRCLES WHERE
IT WAS ORIGINALLY MEANT AS
PRAISE
THE STUDENTS SAY IT STILL CA
BE
>> WE DON'T THINK OF IT AS A BAD
THING, WE THINK OF IT AS GETTING
A DEEPER UNDERSTANDING FOR HOW
SOMETHING WORKS.
IN ORDER TO MAKE IT DO SOMETHING
THAT MAYBE IT WASN'T INTENDED TO
DO, BUT IT'S CAPABLE OF DOING.
>> IT'S OFTEN THE PEOPLE WHO, AS
YOUNG HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS, THEY
STARTED GOOFING AROUND WIT
ELECTRONICS AND COMPUTERS, HOW
TO DO SIMPLE ATTACKS, HOW TO GET
INSIDE A MACHINE
>> Reporter: ANDREW CONTI IS A
INVESTIGATIVE REPORTER WHO'S
WRITTEN DOZENS OF ARTICLES ABOUT
HACKERS AND CYBER SECURITY
>> AT SOME POINT THEY MAKE THE
DECISION, AM I GOING TO BE A
GOOD HACKER OR A BAD HACKER?
THERE'S NOT THAT MUCH DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN THEM IN TERMS OF THEIR
ABILITIES.
HUGE DIFFERENCE IN TERMS O
MOTIVATIONS.
>> Reporter: THAT RAISES THE
QUESTION OF HOW WISE IT IS T
TEACH THESE ABILITIES TO
STUDENTS BARELY OUT OF THEIR
TEENS WITH UNKNOWN MOTIVATIONS
CYLAB GRADUATE STUDENT PETER
CHAPMAN SAYS NOT TO WORRY.
>> IF YOU'RE FIGURING OUT HOW TO
ATTACK THINGS, ISN'T IT POSSIBLE
THAT SOMEBODY WHO COMES OUT OF
HERE ISN'T GOING TO DO IT FO
THE RIGHT REASONS?
>> THAT PERSON'S MOTIVATED, THEY
CAN CERTAINLY FIND IT OUT ON
THEIR OWN.
THIS ISN'T HIDDEN INFORMATION.
SOMEONE DETERMINED TO BREAK INTO
A SYSTEM, THEY CAN TAKE NORMAL
COURSES AND ADD THIS HOW AM
GOING TO RUIN THE WORLD MINDSE
TO IT.
IT'S THE SAME WAY A LOCKSMIT
WHO KNOWS HOW TO FIX LOCKS CAN
ALSO BREAK INTO THEM
>> Reporter: CYBER SECURIT
CONSULTANT STEWART BAKER SAY
SOMETIMES IT MAKES SENSE FOR A
COMPANY THAT'S BEEN THE TARGET
OF BAD GUY HACKERS TO ENGAGE I
THE LITTLE DIGITAL BREAKING AN
ENTERING OF ITS OWN, TO HACK
BACK, IN OTHER WORDS
HE THINKS IT COULD BE AN
IMPORTANT WEAPON IN THE CYBE
SECURITY ARSENAL
BUT IT ISN'T SO CLEAR-CU
ETHICALLY OR LEGALLY, BECAUSE IT
CAN VIOLATE FEDERAL COMPUTER
SECURITY LAWS.
>> I HAVE BEEN MAKING A VERY
PUBLIC ARGUMENT THAT WE SHOULD
ALLOW THIS
AND WE SHOULD READ THE COMPUTE
FRAUD AND ABUSE ACT TO PERMI
IT
>> WHAT IF THE MACHINE QUESTIO
IS OUTSIDE THE U.S.?
IS IT STILL A VIOLATION OF THE
ACT?
>> UNFORTUNATELY, IT IS.
>> Reporter: BAKER SAYS GOOD GUY
HACKERS WHO HAVE HACKED BACK
HAVE LEARNED THAT CYBE
CRIMINALS AREN'T ALWAYS AS
CLEVER AS THEY SEEM TO BE.
TAKE THE EXAMPLE OF A HACKER WHO
BROKE INTO LAW ENFORCEMENT
COMPUTERS, COPIED PERSONAL
INFORMATION ABOUT OFFICERS, AN
POSTED IT ONLINE
HE ALSO LEFT A PROVOCATIVE
PICTURE OF HIS GIRLFRIEND AS A
CALLING CARD
WHICH TURNED OUT TO BE A
MISTAKE.
>> THEY TOOK THE PICTURE WITH AN
iPHONE
AND THAT MEANT THAT SOMEBODY HAD
HELPFULLY INCLUDED THE
GEOGRAPHIC COORDINATES WHERE THE
PICTURE WAS TAKEN.
SO THE FBI FINDS THE GIRLFRIEN
OF THE HACKER AND WENT AND
BUSTED THE GUY IN TEXAS.
SO THESE DIGITAL CLUES ARE
EVERYWHERE
>> Reporter: THE HACKER PLEADE
GUILTY TO ACCESSING A PROTECTE
COMPUTER WITHOUT AUTHORIZATION
AND RECEIVED A SENTENCE OF 2
MONTHS IN PRISON
STEWART BAKER SAYS THAT'S TH
KIND OF OUTCOME HE'D LIKE TO SEE
FROM GOOD GUY HACKERS LIKE THE
STUDENTS AT CARNEGIE MELLON.
HEAR MORE FROM THE STUDENT
HACKERS TO MAKE UP THE PLAID
PARTNER AT OF PONING
NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG
>>> THERE WERE ACTS OF DEFIANC
AGAINST AUTHORITIES IN SAUDI
ARABIA TODAY
WOMEN PUSHED BACK AGAINST
LONG-STANDING BAN ON DRIVING
AND THEN POSTED VIDEOS OF IT
ONLINE
IT'S THE LATEST CHALLENGE TO
RELIGIOUS LEADERS BY WOMEN
SEEKING GREATER FREEDOMS A
HOME
AND AT WORK.
SEEKING NEW WAYS TO EXPRES
THEMSELVES
THERE'S CURRENTLY A MOVIE IN
U.S. THEET THERE'S SHOWS HOW
TIMES ARE CHANGING IN SAUD
ARABIA
THIS IS THE FIRST FEATURE FILM
MADE IN SAUDI ARABIA AND THE
FIRST DIRECTED BY A WOMAN.
THE MOVIE IS ABOUT A YOUNG TEE
WHO WANTS NOTHING MORE THAN TO
RIDE A BIKE.
BUT ISN'T ALLOWED TO BECAUSE O
RELIGIOUS NORMS.
THOUGH IT'S FICTION, THE FIL
ALSO SHOWS THE SECOND-CLAS
STATUS OF SAUDI WOMEN IN REA
LIFE
THE NEED FOR APPROVAL FROM THEIR
HUSBANDS OR MALE GUARDIANS
BEFORE WORKING
AND A MAN'S RIGHT TO MORE THAN
ONE WIFE
AND THEN THERE'S THE BAN O
WOMEN DRIVING.
JUST AS THE MOVIE REBELS AGAINST
TRA DIGS LIMITING WHAT THE MAI
CHARACTER CAN DO, SAUDI WOME
ARE CHALLENGING THE OLD WAYS
DR. MADEA WHO STUDIED IN THE
UNITED STATES FOR SEVERAL YEAR
SPOKE TO "NEWSHOUR" VIA SKYPE.
SHE RECENTLY POSTED HER OW
DRIVING VIDEO AND SHE'S BEEN
FIGHTING FOR THE RIGHT TO DRIV
FOR MORE THAN 20 YEARS
>> I ACTUALLY DROVE THREE TIMES.
FIRST TIME IS 1990
AND THE SECOND TIME IS 2011.
THE FIRST TWO TIMES I GOT --
LOSING MY JOB.
>> IN THE FIRST CAMPAIGN IN TH
1990s, 47 WOMEN'S WERE ARRESTED,
DENOUNCED IN HUNDREDS OF
MOSQUES, LABELED WOMEN OUT T
DESTROY SAUDI SOCIETY.
>> 1990, I WAS VERY SCARED
WE HAD TO DRIVE WITHIN A GROUP
WE DIDN'T KNOW IT WAS GOING TO
HAPPEN TO US
FELT MUCH MORE VULNERABLE, 1990.
2013, YEAH, A LITTLE FEAR.
BUT I KNOW THAT THE SUPPOR
SYSTEM IS REALLY VERY LARGE.
SAUDI ARABIA HAS TO CHANGE
AND I DON'T THINK IT'S A MATTE
OF CHOICE.
IT ISN'T
WE ARE PART OF THIS GLOBAL
WORLD.
WE'RE PART OF THIS GLOBA
ECONOMY.
AND WE NO LONGER COULD KEEP OU
50% OF SOCIETY HANDICAPPED
>> THIS VIDEO SHOT BY ANOTHE
WOMAN SAYS THE CURRENT CAMPAIG
IS NOT JUST A FIGHT FOR EQUA
RIGHTS
THE RIGHT TO DRIVE, SHE SAYS, IS
A MATTER OF PRACTICALITY
>> YOU'RE COMPLETELY DEPEN
DENT 24/7.
IF AN EMERGENCY HAPPENS IN THE
HOUSE, YOU CAN'T PICK UP AND
LEAVE.
IF MY HUSBAND'S NOT AVAILABLE,
HE'S GOT HIS OWN STUFF TO DO
THEN I CAN'T GO TO WORK.
I CAN'T TAKE MY DAUGHTER TO TH
HOSPITAL
I CAN'T GO FOR AN EMERGENCY.
I'M COMPLETELY STUCK
>> THERE'S BEEN A BACKLASH
ONE CLERIC ARGUED ON SAUDI
TELEVISION LAST MONTH THAT
DRIVING ACTUALLY POSES HEALT
RISKS TO WOMEN
>> AS THE MOVEMENT WAS GAINING
MOMENTUM, THE DRIVING CAMPAIGN'S
WEBSITE WAS BLOCKED.
MANY SUSPECTED THAT IT WAS THE
WORK OF A SPECIAL RELIGIOU
POLICE FORCE THAT TRIES TO
ENFORCE THE COUNTRY'
CONSERVATIVE CUSTOMS
ALL THIS HAS SPARKED HEADLINES
AROUND THE WORLD
AN ONLINE PETITION CALLING FOR A
REPEAL OF THE DRIVING BAN HA
BEEN SIGNED BY MORE THAN 16,00
PEOPLE
AND THE CAUSE IS GAINING SUPPORT
IN THE STREETS OF RIYADH
THIS VIDEO SHOT BY ANOTHER SAUDI
WOMAN CAPTURES MEN GIVING WOME
DRIVE AREAS THUMBS-UP.
OTHERS LIKE AZIZA AL YOUSSEF
HAVE GOTTEN INVOLVED IN TH
DRIVING CAMPAIGN MORE RECENTLY
AND SAY THAT'S PUTTING MOR
PRESSURE ON SAUDI LEADERS TO
CHANGE
>> I THINK THIS TIME PEOPLE --
THERE IS MORE ACCEPTANCE FRO
THE SOCIETY.
AND I THINK THERE IS MORE PEOPLE
IN THIS CAMPAIGN THAN EVER
AND I THINK IT'S GOING TO HAPPEN
VERY SOON.
>> BUT AL YOUSSEF ISN'T WAITIN
FOR PERMISSION
>> IT'S NOT LIKE IT'S A ONE-DA
THING.
FOR ME IN MY MIND THERE IS N
BAN.
I DO IT TWO OR THREE TIMES A
WEEK
>> MADEA SAYS SHE'S NOT STOPPING
ANY TIME SOON.
>> NOTHING IS GIVEN TO YOU
YOU REALLY HAVE TO FIND IT
AND WE KNOW IN UNITED STATES, WE
KNOW IN EUROPE, WOMEN HAD TO
REALLY STRUGGLE, WOMEN HAD TO BE
IMPRISONED
NO REASON I THINK IT SHOULD BE
ANY EASIER IN SAUDI ARABIA
IT ISN'T
IT'S JUST A MATTER OF BEIN
RESISTANT AND JUST CONTINUIN
ONE AFTER THE OTHER.
ONE REQUEST AFTER THE OTHER.
RIGHT NOW OUR MAIN REQUEST I
DRIVING.
>> THIS IS PBS "NEWSHOUR WEEKEND
SATURDAY."
>>> FINALLY, A DISTURBIN
ACCOUNT ABOUT CONDITIONS I
NORTH KOREA'S PRISON SYSTEM.
THIS FROM AN ESCAPEE WHO JUMPE
OFF A TRAIN, SWAM ACROSS A RIVER
TO CHINA, AND WOULD EVENTUALLY
MAKE HIS WAY TO ENGLAND.
HE SPOKE AT A UNITED NATIONS
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMITTEE HEARING
ITN'S FOREIGN AFFAIR
CORRESPONDENT JONATHAN RUGMA
REPORTS.
>> Reporter: HE WASN'T ALWAY
FROM SURREY.
BEFORE HE TASTED CAPPUCCINOS, HE
SURVIVED ON CUPS OF GRUEL.
KIM IS AN ESCAPED PRISONER FRO
NORTH KOREA, THE WORLD'S MOS
REPRESSIVE STATE
MR. KIM SAID HE HAD BEEN HELD IN
A SINGLE PRISON CELL WITH 40
PEOPLE WHO HAD NO ROOM TO STAN
OR MOVE.
THE DOOR OF THAT CELL WAS 50
CENTIMETERS HIGH
>> THE NORTH KOREAN PRISON
GUARDS WERE TELLING US THAT,
ONCE YOU GET TO THIS PRISON,
IT'S BECAUSE YOU'RE NOT HUMAN.
YOU'RE JUST LIKE ANIMALS
AND AS SOON AS YOU GET TO THIS
PRISON, YOU HAVE TO CRAWL JUST
LIKE ANIMALS
>> Reporter: HE SHOWED THE U.N
PANEL HOW HE HID MONEY FROM HI
PRISON GUARDS BY SWALLOWING IT
AND THOUGH HE EVENTUALLY JUMPE
FROM A MOVING PRISON TRAIN, HI
MOTHER DIED, HANDCUFFED TO HER
BED.
THE AUSTRALIAN HIGH COURT JUDG
HEADING THIS INQUIRY SAYS HE'S
INTERVIEWING 150 WITNESSES AND
UNEARTHING APPALLING EVIDENCE.
>> EVIDENCE OF BODIES IN LARGE
CARTLOADS BEING TAKEN AWAY TO BE
BURNED IN A POT.
AND OTHER EVIDENCE O
HUMILIATING CIRCUMSTANCES.
SADLY, THERE'S A LOT O
EVIDENCE
THERE'S NO END TO THE TESTIMON
THAT CAN BE SECURED.
>> Reporter: HIS INQUIRY I
VISITING FIVE COUNTRIES IN THE
SEARCH FOR THAT TESTIMONY AN
HOPING TO SHINE A SPOTLIGHT ON
THE REGIME'S HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES
LIKE NEVER BEFORE.
>>> JOIN US TOMORROW ON-AIR AN
ONLINE
RISK AND REWARD.
THE NEW GOVERNMENT RULES THA
WILL ALLOW MORE PERSONS TO
INVEST IN STARTUP BUSINESSES
>> I THINK IT'S GOING TO LEASH
ANOTHER WAVE OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP
ALL ACROSS THE NATION.
>> THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION OF
"NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.